When we try to understand the
concept of self-compassion,
it can be helpful to first think of
compassion - what it is
and how it feels.
Compassion can be defined as
feelings of kindness towards,
and a desire to help, someone who's
suffering.
Imagine how you'd react if a good
friend told you about some upsetting
news they'd received and they were
clearly distressed.
If your reaction was to feel
concerned and want to help them,
that's compassion.
Self-compassion is applying the same
sense of loving concern to
ourselves, especially at times
when life is hard and stressful.
Most of us are great at feeling and
acting on our compassion for others,
but when it comes to ourselves, we
can be tough and uncaring.
Sometimes we don't even realise we
are suffering because we're so
focused on other people's needs or
getting things done.
Self-compassion is also about
taking a balanced and mindful
perspective of things.
Seeing the bigger picture beyond a
moment of suffering, instead
of ignoring our pain or exaggerating
it.
When we are compassionate to
ourselves, we recognise that
suffering is part of the human
experience that connects us all,
rather than something that
isolates us or means we are flawed
or unworthy.